doc/IssueLog.md, before:

# Issue Log

A record of some headache-inducing issues and what the fix ended up being.

## Build errors - Aug 25

### Encountered

Installing the dev environment on Windows attempting to create the Windows package.

### Fixes

Built package with `app:build:win` creates an executable but it doesn't launch a window when opening in Windows.

Set up Windows dev environment instead. Note, WSL does not solve this issue as it will build for ubuntu.

```
Error: TS1261: Already included file name .... differs from file name ....
```

Changes to casing in the directories did not get committed into repository. In this case, it was the directories:

- client/components/About
- client/components/EditPipeline

Changing the casing for the directories fixed.

TS and vue-tsc versions were also updated to 5 and 2 respectively as there may be an incompatibility that wasn't noticed in an older dev environment with certain global installs.

After updating, vue dropzone may be broken. May want to check this soon.


**Below notes are for WSL, which is not so relevant after all**

```
Error while loading shared libraries: libnss3.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```

Run:

```bash
apt-get install libnss
apt-get install libnss3-dev libgdk-pixbuf2.0-dev libgtk-3-dev libxss-dev libasound2
# and so on according to errors
```

## Build errors - Aug 12

### Encountered

Error threw after starting up project ever since rebooting system.

```bash
[PACKARINO]
[PACKARINO] /Users/admin/Documents/GitHub/Hoarder-Util/node_modules/vue-tsc/bin/vue-tsc.js:68
[PACKARINO] 			throw err;
[PACKARINO] 			^
[PACKARINO] Search string not found: "for (const existingRoot of buildInfoVersionMap.roots) {"
[PACKARINO] (Use `node --trace-uncaught ...` to show where the exception was thrown)
[PACKARINO]
[PACKARINO] Node.js v18.18.2
```

### Fix

Was on node 18 lol

## Filter regexp not recognizing - Aug 1

### Fix

When the string was passed from an html input the escape characters were not necessary.

```regexp
^\d{1,2}\D\d{1,2}\D\d{1,2}\D\d{1,2}\D\d{1,2}
```

## Messages not coming from client - Jul 29

### Encountered

Attempting to link up save user data

### Fix

Calling `invoke` on the channel should be handled with `handle` and calling `send` handled with `on`. Moreover, there are limits to the IPC serialization so it seems safer to send string data.

## Cannot resolve modules - Jul 29

### Encountered

```
[PACKARINO] Error: Cannot find module '@util/output'
[PACKARINO] Require stack:
[PACKARINO] - /Users/admin/Documents/GitHub/Hoarder-Util/h-util-ui/dist/Electron/operations/handler.js
```

### Searched

```
node not compiling alias
```

### Fix

Used module-alias

In run time, when configured in `package.json` it would hard bake the path into the TS source and not `dist/`, so dynamic construction in `main.ts` was implemented as such:

```ts
moduleAliases.addAliases({
    '@util': path.join(__dirname, 'util'),
    '@shared': path.join(__dirname, '../common'),
});
```

## Cannot find dateformat - Jul 28

### Encountered

After trying to mess with `tsconfig` to set up paths, running `yarn start` broke.

### Searched

```
Error: Cannot find module 'dateformat'
```

### Workaround

Installed dateformat directly into the ui project folder. Not ideal, but not worth investigating further at this time.

As a side note, encountered this while trying to run `yarn setup` to refresh the environment:

```
error quasar@2.16.6: The engine "yarn" is incompatible with this module. Expected version ">= 1.21.1".
error Found incompatible module
```

Worked around it instead of addressing, fed up with setup and config snags for the day.

## Quasar notify not working - Jul 28

### Searched

```
Vue quasar Notify not showing
```

### Fix

There is a bug with the import, necessary to import from the library path:

```ts
// import { Notify } from 'quasar';
import Notify from 'quasar/src/plugins/notify/Notify';
```

## Runtime logging issues - Jul 28

### Encountered

Making output class a common module and running.

### Fix

```ts
// import * as colors from 'colors/safe';
const colors = require('colors/safe');
```

## Compilation issues - Jul 27

### Encountered

Attempting to compile after adding date prefix module, to test functionality.

### Searched

```
require() of ES Module not supported dateformat
```

When attempting to build after adding dateformat module to `@common/`

### Fix

Add `"type": "commonjs"` to package json to enable importing these module types.

## Empty front-end - Jul 26

### Encountered

After attempting to hook up the client to the back-end processes via IPC.

### Searched

```
client import electron crashes __dirname
```

### Fix

Remove `electron-preload-helpers` and just use electron's native ipc renderer when trying to preload and expose an API.

## No main logs - Jul 26

### Encountered

Attempting to verify that the back-end processes are starting and logging, to be able to confirm if we are receiving messages.

### Searched

```
Electron main console logs not showing
```

### Fix

Reconfigure build locations and make sure the entry point was the correct built file.

Previous, it built in the `/dist` directory directly, but it got moved into `/dist/Electron`

Commit message:

Alter data dict helper, add test

doc/IssueLog.md, after:

# Issue Log

A record of some headache-inducing issues and what the fix ended up being.

## Broken path aliases in tests - Sep 13

### Encountered

Creating test files that import methods which use `@common`, `@util`, `@shared`

### Fixes

Update the `jest.config.js` to match the alias definitions in `tsconfig.json`.

## Build errors - Aug 25

### Encountered

Installing the dev environment on Windows attempting to create the Windows package.

### Fixes

Built package with `app:build:win` creates an executable but it doesn't launch a window when opening in Windows.

Set up Windows dev environment instead. Note, WSL does not solve this issue as it will build for ubuntu.

```
Error: TS1261: Already included file name .... differs from file name ....
```

Changes to casing in the directories did not get committed into repository. In this case, it was the directories:

- client/components/About
- client/components/EditPipeline

Changing the casing for the directories fixed.

TS and vue-tsc versions were also updated to 5 and 2 respectively as there may be an incompatibility that wasn't noticed in an older dev environment with certain global installs.

After updating, vue dropzone may be broken. May want to check this soon.


**Below notes are for WSL, which is not so relevant after all**

```
Error while loading shared libraries: libnss3.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```

Run:

```bash
apt-get install libnss
apt-get install libnss3-dev libgdk-pixbuf2.0-dev libgtk-3-dev libxss-dev libasound2
# and so on according to errors
```

## Build errors - Aug 12

### Encountered

Error threw after starting up project ever since rebooting system.

```bash
[PACKARINO]
[PACKARINO] /Users/admin/Documents/GitHub/Hoarder-Util/node_modules/vue-tsc/bin/vue-tsc.js:68
[PACKARINO] 			throw err;
[PACKARINO] 			^
[PACKARINO] Search string not found: "for (const existingRoot of buildInfoVersionMap.roots) {"
[PACKARINO] (Use `node --trace-uncaught ...` to show where the exception was thrown)
[PACKARINO]
[PACKARINO] Node.js v18.18.2
```

### Fix

Was on node 18 lol

## Filter regexp not recognizing - Aug 1

### Fix

When the string was passed from an html input the escape characters were not necessary.

```regexp
^\d{1,2}\D\d{1,2}\D\d{1,2}\D\d{1,2}\D\d{1,2}
```

## Messages not coming from client - Jul 29

### Encountered

Attempting to link up save user data

### Fix

Calling `invoke` on the channel should be handled with `handle` and calling `send` handled with `on`. Moreover, there are limits to the IPC serialization so it seems safer to send string data.

## Cannot resolve modules - Jul 29

### Encountered

```
[PACKARINO] Error: Cannot find module '@util/output'
[PACKARINO] Require stack:
[PACKARINO] - /Users/admin/Documents/GitHub/Hoarder-Util/h-util-ui/dist/Electron/operations/handler.js
```

### Searched

```
node not compiling alias
```

### Fix

Used module-alias

In run time, when configured in `package.json` it would hard bake the path into the TS source and not `dist/`, so dynamic construction in `main.ts` was implemented as such:

```ts
moduleAliases.addAliases({
    '@util': path.join(__dirname, 'util'),
    '@shared': path.join(__dirname, '../common'),
});
```

## Cannot find dateformat - Jul 28

### Encountered

After trying to mess with `tsconfig` to set up paths, running `yarn start` broke.

### Searched

```
Error: Cannot find module 'dateformat'
```

### Workaround

Installed dateformat directly into the ui project folder. Not ideal, but not worth investigating further at this time.

As a side note, encountered this while trying to run `yarn setup` to refresh the environment:

```
error quasar@2.16.6: The engine "yarn" is incompatible with this module. Expected version ">= 1.21.1".
error Found incompatible module
```

Worked around it instead of addressing, fed up with setup and config snags for the day.

## Quasar notify not working - Jul 28

### Searched

```
Vue quasar Notify not showing
```

### Fix

There is a bug with the import, necessary to import from the library path:

```ts
// import { Notify } from 'quasar';
import Notify from 'quasar/src/plugins/notify/Notify';
```

## Runtime logging issues - Jul 28

### Encountered

Making output class a common module and running.

### Fix

```ts
// import * as colors from 'colors/safe';
const colors = require('colors/safe');
```

## Compilation issues - Jul 27

### Encountered

Attempting to compile after adding date prefix module, to test functionality.

### Searched

```
require() of ES Module not supported dateformat
```

When attempting to build after adding dateformat module to `@common/`

### Fix

Add `"type": "commonjs"` to package json to enable importing these module types.

## Empty front-end - Jul 26

### Encountered

After attempting to hook up the client to the back-end processes via IPC.

### Searched

```
client import electron crashes __dirname
```

### Fix

Remove `electron-preload-helpers` and just use electron's native ipc renderer when trying to preload and expose an API.

## No main logs - Jul 26

### Encountered

Attempting to verify that the back-end processes are starting and logging, to be able to confirm if we are receiving messages.

### Searched

```
Electron main console logs not showing
```

### Fix

Reconfigure build locations and make sure the entry point was the correct built file.

Previous, it built in the `/dist` directory directly, but it got moved into `/dist/Electron`
